Add `syslog` parser (#3645)
tenzir/tenzir: web/docs/formats/syslog.md

# syslog

> Reads syslogs.

Reviewer: I think we should stick to the singular "syslog".

Reviewer: There are a few more remaining occurrences of "syslogs". You can also leave it in, but based on my quick searches the plural form is almost never used.

## Synopsis

```
syslog
```

## Description

> [Syslogs](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/syslog/charter/) are a standard format for message logging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Syslog](https://datatracker.ietf.org/wg/syslog/charter/) is a standard format for message logging.
```

Although I'm not sure why we link to the WG here?

([RFC 5424](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5424)), and the older "BSD syslog Protocol" format
([RFC 3164](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3164)).

Depending on the syslog format, the result can be different.
Here's an example of a syslog message in RFC 5424 format:

```
<165>8 2003-10-11T22:14:15.003Z mymachineexamplecom evntslog - ID47 [exampleSDID@32473 iut="4" eventSource="Applic\"ation" eventID="1011"] BOMAn application event log entry...
```

With this input, the parser will produce the following output, with the schema name `syslog.rfc5424`:

```json
{
  "facility": 20,
  "severity": 5,
  "version": 8,
  "ts": "2003-10-11T22:14:15.003000",
  "hostname": "mymachineexamplecom",
  "app_name": "evntslog",
  "process_id": "",
  "message_id": "ID47",
  "message": "BOMAn application event log entry..."
}
```

Here's an example of a syslog message in RFC 3164 format:

```
<34> Nov 16 14:55:56 mymachine PROGRAM: Freeform message
```

With this input, the parser will produce the following output, with the schema name `syslog.rfc3164`:

```json
{
  "facility": 4,
  "severity": 2,
  "timestamp": "Nov 16 14:55:56",
  "host": "mymachine",
  "tag": "PROGRAM",

>   "content": "Freeform message"

Reviewer 2: I'm curious: Is there a reason why it's "content" for RFC 3164, and "message" RFC 5424?

Author: That's following the RFCs: in 3164, the `message` field is divided into two parts, `tag` and `content`. In 5424, the information previously conveyed by the tag is given in the header. To quote Wikipedia:

> In RFC 3164, the message component (known as MSG) was specified as having these fields: TAG, which should be the name of the program or process that generated the message, and CONTENT which contains the details of the message. 
> 
> Described in RFC 5424, "MSG is what was called CONTENT in RFC 3164. The TAG is now part of the header, but not as a single field. The TAG has been split into APP-NAME, PROCID, and MSGID. This does not totally resemble the usage of TAG, but provides the same functionality for most of the cases."

Author: That's following the RFCs: in 3164, the `message` field is divided into two parts, `tag` and `content`. In 5424, the information previously conveyed by the tag is given in the header. To quote Wikipedia:

> In RFC 3164, the message component (known as MSG) was specified as having these fields: TAG, which should be the name of the program or process that generated the message, and CONTENT which contains the details of the message. 
> 
> Described in RFC 5424, "MSG is what was called CONTENT in RFC 3164. The TAG is now part of the header, but not as a single field. The TAG has been split into APP-NAME, PROCID, and MSGID. This does not totally resemble the usage of TAG, but provides the same functionality for most of the cases."

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the explanation, it does make sense to follow the RFCs here. Should we perhaps add an info box to the docs explaining this (I'm not sure)?
